## Canada Line

It is evident from crowding the Canada line will have to be retrofitted such that it can hold more people that it was designed for. This will have to come from two main avenues: the trains, and the infrastructure. 

### The Train

By the time control of this line is turned over to TransLink, the Hyundai Rotem trains will likely be at or near the end of their lifespan. Therefore, this is a great opportunity to refresh the rolling stock with a model that increases capacity via lengthening the train and redesigning the interior. In general, it does not matter who produces this new model; the Canada line uses very conventional metro technology, and many parties are likely able to offer something that can help expand the Canada line's capabilities. 

#### The Train Length

I believe the train platforms (assuming they are only lengthened to the designed 50m) can host a 3-car train of approximately 54m. This is similar to the 85m Mk V SkyTrain sets currently being deployed on the Expo and Millennium lines, where most of the stations on those lines are 80m long. 

#### The Train Interiors

During rush hour (and also some off-peak times), the Canada line can be packed, with many standing passengers, and not a lot of standing room due to the seating layout. Therefore, it seems ideal to have most of the seats as longitudinal/lengthwise seating, in order to maximise standing room. 

### The Infrastructure

The infrastructure for the Canada line will have to addressed in 3 ways: platform length, double tracking, and extending line length. 

#### Platform Length

The current Canada line platforms are mostly either 50m, or 40m and expandable to 50m. The most recently built station, Capstan station, is 52.5m. This plan assumes the platform length will remain or only be expanded to 50m. 

#### Double Tracking

South of Lansdowne station, the Canada line merges its track into one track. In order to have more capacity, and enable an extension, it will have to be double tracked. 

#### Extension to Steveston Highway

A southward extension aims to extend the reach of the line, such that the bus network can behave more like a grid, and bring rail further south, extending its reach to more people. It can also open up opportunities for a new operations and maintenance depot. 